Instructions:

Develop a machine learning based project. Each student is required to work on individual problem choosing from the list provided.   All write ups are to be as per IEEE format. 

Evaluation criteria:
The novelty of the project ideas and applications. Highlight the significance, originality, and rigor of the research 
The extensiveness of the study and experiments.  Combination of several ML/well-designed
experiments/thorough analysis of the experimental results/integration of ML with real world application.
Presentation and question answering in the class.
Report preparation.
(I)  Proposal

Include the following information:
 Cover page:  Roll No. Name, Subject Code, Name of the Subject, Course Component, Project Title, Year, Semester, Department , Institute
 Project idea. various approaches and the approach chosen by you (approximately two paragraphs)
Data set (Choose at least four  different datasets  from different sources for the problem).
Software/Hardware
Reference papers. Include  at least 5 additional  relevant papers.


(II) Data Set Analysis

  Descriptive Statistics Analysis
Identify at least four different datasets for your problem.  Check the data quality of each dataset.

Check for adequacy of data.
Check whether the dataset is imbalanced.
Generate all descriptive statistical analysis (which were discussed in the class)
Check for outliers in the data (use boxplot) Removing outliers (noisy data).
Removing null or irrelevant values in the columns. (Change null values to mean value of that column.)
If there is any missing data, either ignore the tuple or fill it with a mean value of the column.
Need for data augmentation.
Document  your results regarding data cleaning.
Identify the distribution pattern of data.
Find the sample mean X¯.
Find the 100p percentile for p = 0.75 and p= 0.25
Find the median M and the third quartile Q3.
Draw the box plot and identify the outliers.
Obtain the trimmed mean X¯ T . Decide on trimming fraction just enough to
eliminate the outliers and obtain the trimmed median M¯T .
obtain the trimmed standard deviation ST .
what can you say about the population from which the data arrived?
Conduct Correlation of important parameters. 

Document all your findings and recommendations. Include appropriate tables and graphs.

sample for reference
(https://www.kaggle.com/code/chrischapman12343/gender-inequality-data-cleaning-and-model-training#Data-Visuzalization

https://www.kaggle.com/code/priyanshusethi/gender-discrimination-a-case-study)

https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/recodai-luc-scientific-image-forgery-detection?utm_medium=email&utm_source=gamma&utm_campaign=comp-recodai-2025

(III) Implementation

    Experimental Setups:
 
       Conduct experiments : with different variants  of algorithms with training and testing : (50-50, 60-40, 70-30 and 80-20
distribution) and other options like randomization etc.  Cross validation
                    
 Use at least 6 evaluation metrics for each experiment.  Interpret your results Compare your results

(IV) Final Deliverables:  i)
PPT presentation;  ii) Report;    iii) source code and dataset

Structure of the Report:
Abstract (500 words)
Keywords (5 words)
Introduction
Related Work
Implementation
Theoretical/Mathematical Analysis
Results and Discussion
Conclusion
References
Acknowledgement
Research Data and links thereof
Code and links thereof
Brief biodata

# MY TOPIC IS: Unsupervised Music Genre Discovery Using Audio Feature Learning 